#20161214 STI Managers/Software POCs Meeting

**Date: December 14, 2016**

**Time: 12:00 p.m. – 12:45 p.m.**

**Agenda:**

1.	Metadata feedback
2.	Submission process improvements for software
3.	How software submission is integrated with current systems for STI products/Ways to make submission easier

**Proceedings:**

1.	The meeting began discussing metadata feedback. The first suggestion was that for the ‘Developer/Creator’ field, affiliation should be mandatory and the team was asked if it is possible for developers’ names to be recalled when you begin typing them into the system. For the name recall, it was explained that this is not something that would happen in the first stages of DOE Code and that it would be hard to do because of author disambiguation.  It was mentioned here that DOE Code hopes to automate as much of the metadata as possible. As far as making the affiliations mandatory, it was explained it can’t be made mandatory because of large efforts that have thousands of authors. This, in combination with some authors not having firm affiliations, made the team decide on having this as an optional field. A question was asked on what would normally be seen in the Rights/Licenses/Legal Notices/Disclaimers field. It was answered that the ‘License’ field has been separated as its own mandatory field and everything else will remain as one freeform optional field. This led to a conversation about one lab wanting to have software available on their online site/store’s software portal and to be able to drive traffic there. An action item made here was to discuss on how to accommodate DOE Code’s page, the lab’s splash page, and the separate page for the repository. 

2.	The next topic discussed was about current pain points in the submission process for software. The first problem mentioned was about specific fields (compiler, language, etc.) that are difficult to get information about from the staff and the team member asked about the importance of some of those details. The response was that most of these fields have been dropped or made optional in the first version of the metadata. It was mentioned here that by making some related fields optional, the team hopes to incorporate legacy packages with that information. The last issue mentioned was about people not knowing requirements about submitting to OSTI, and concerns about double counting. 

3.	The team lead asked the rest of the members how software submission is being integrated with their current systems for STI products. There was a general consensus that the labs’ software submissions are outside of the STI process. The team was then asked if they had thoughts on ways to make submission easier. It was said that the more that OSTI can scan the better. This brought about a discussion about an idea having a standardized file in the software that could be scanned. It was noted that it would be ideal for the researchers to write the file as opposed to the legal office, but that some researchers will do a good job and writing the file and others will leave blanks. The more straight forward and easy the file would be to complete, the greater the possibility of this idea working. An important question was asked if this discussion was only concerning open source. This brought about conversation about closed source software and versioning for closed source. The DOE Code effort has plans to handle closed source in addition to open source, but specific plans on how have not been fleshed out at this time. The meeting adjourned with plans to have the next meeting in the February-March, 2017 timeframe. 

**Conclusions/Actions:**

-	Discuss how to accommodate various pages (DOE Code’s page, lab’s splash page, separate page for repo)
-	Flesh out plans for handling closed source software in policy meetings
